We are now into the exercise part
of this particular course of HTTP2.
So here's the one CLI thing
that you have to do for
me during the course of this course,
course of this course.
I'm gonna delete these so that I can
regenerate them for you and you can see.
Delete.
So let me bring this up.
Let me make it bigger.
Maybe not quite that big, maybe that.
Okay, so we're gonna go into
the HTTP2 portion of this.
And we're gonna go into exercise.
Okay, so HTTP2, well,
it's not necessarily built into the spec
that you must do it over HTTPS.
It actually is required
by all the browsers.
There's no browser that supports
HTTP2 over non-SSL connections.
So in other words,
even though we're doing local development,
we have to have a certificate, right?
So you and I just need to generate
a quick OpenSSL certificate.
I left a bunch of instructions
on the course website.
I'm gonna do it here for Mac so
you can actually see me do it with Mac.
The same thing would work for Linux.
If you need to do it via Windows,
your best bet is to do it over Chocolatey,
so you can use Chocolatey
to install OpenSSL.
But kind of after that,
you're on your own,
because I don't really generate too
many certificates on Windows these days.
So if you have Homebrew installed,
if you don't, go to brew.sh.
I have a link there in the course notes.
But otherwise,
you just do brew install openssl.
I think really any version
of this will work.
I already have installed, let's clear.
Then I want you to go to the root
directory of your project.
So you can see here, I'm in this
directory, so the exercise directory.
And I want you to run two commands,
and I'm just gonna copy and
paste them cuz they're long.
And I don't really
understand what they do,
if we're being totally
honest with each other.
So course notes, where's my course notes?
Intro to Realtime.
I actually have it in the files, too.
If you come here to back and
server, I have them here.
These are the two commands
that you have to run.
I'll actually just copy them from here.
But yeah, they're in the course notes.
They're here into chat with HTTP2.
These two things right here
are the ones we're gonna have to run.
So you have to copy the first one.
One of them generates a key, and then one
takes the key and generates a certificate.
Okay, so I'm gonna paste the first one.
It's gonna ask you a bunch of things.
It doesn't really matter cuz we
don't really care about these certs.
Okay, as you can see here,
I took this very seriously with
the responses that I sent.
Again, it does not matter, okay?
And then you're gonna take
this second one here, and
you're gonna generate a cert
with the keys that you generate.
Okay, and now you can see I have three
files here, csr.pam, key.pam, and
server.crt.
So unfortunately,
it won't work if you don't do these.
We have to do this over SSL or
the HTTP2 part of this just won't work.
Okay, the other thing I wanna make
sure that I call out is we've been
doing our localhost here.
Make sure that when you're coming
back here to your browser,
it has to be https://.
This s is critical or else,
your server will not connect.
So that's another thing to keep in mind.
Okay, so now that I've generated these,
I actually installed them for you.
So as long as they're in the correct
place and named the correct things.
So if you run these two
commands in the correct place,
which is in the root directory,
not the backend directory,
everything will just plug in and
work for you.
And let's go take a bit of
a tour of our code here.
So at this point,
you should be able to say npm run dev.
It should work.
So this should look really familiar.
Try to keep things as similar as possible
as they were from the previous section.
Couple of things here,
we're no longer using Express.
You can make Express work with HTTP2.
What I'm showing you is
possible with Express.
But I wanted to get lower level so
you can really understand what's
going on underneath the hood.
HTTP2, this is the actual direct
standard library from Node.js.
It's not a module.
It's a module built into Node itself.
fs is for file system,
path is a helper for doing paths.
These are all from Node itself,
same with URL.
serve-handler, this is actually
a library put up by Vercel for
serving static assets.
It's very easy to use.
If you've ever done npm install serve,
this is the middleware that handles
everything inside of serve,
just so you know.
And then nanobuffer,
we've seen that before.
This is all stuff you've seen before.
This is us starting the server, and
this is us creating the secure server with
the cert and the key right there, right?
So that all goes there.
We're about to write
some code that goes here.
So server on request.
So we check the path, and if the path
is not something going to our endpoint,
I'm gonna assume it's a static asset,
which is what this does right here.
Otherwise, if it's a post,
then we're assuming that a user
is posting to the endpoints.
And this is actually just reading
something out of the post.
And then down here,
we'll handle the posts.
But you remember what body parser
was doing for us in Express?
This is what body parser does for you.
It reads stuff out of a request, and
then makes a buffer out of it, and
then it parses that to JSON.
Didn't make you write it cuz it didn't
feel important to the course today.
But in case you're wondering,
that's what it does for you.
All right, so that's it for
the server so far.
Right here, we're listening to requests,
which is like a full on
normal 1.1 style request.
That's what all this is gonna do.
But we're about to listen for
something called streams.
There's no built-in router
to the HTTP library.
That's what Express does for you.
It's basically a router on top of HTTP.
So that's how we have to handle
the path and method stuff here.
Because that's what Express
would normally do for you.
I'm excited about this.
This is one of my favorite
things to just mess around with.
I really enjoy going in and finding
these low level of abstractions and
seeing what stuff is gonna do for us.
We're gonna do it with WebSockets too,
it's wild.
Or I don't know if it's wild,
maybe I just have a weird definition
of what is wild and what is not.
Anyway, this is not therapy hour.
I'll talk to my therapist
about that later.
Okay, so we're gonna say, server,
which is our Node server, right?
Whenever it gets a stream request,
which is specific to HTTP2,
we're gonna run this handler.
This does not need to be async.
Okay, so it's not an async.
It could be async, but
it doesn't need to be.
So it's gonna take in a stream and
a headers array.
Okay, so the first thing is everything
is gonna both make a request and
open a stream as well.
So when someone requests styles.css,
this is gonna fire, and
then this is gonna fire, right?
So we have to just make sure that we're
paying attention to the correct things.
So first thing we do, I mean,
basically just copy this.
We're gonna make sure that we're
only paying attention to the correct
path and method.
So again, yeah, streams open for
every request from the browser.
And we're gonna say,
if path === /msgs.
Yeah, sorry, I probably should explain
this earlier, but this weird triple equal
signs here I have, it's actually just
my font combining those into one glyph.
But it is actually, you can see that's now
a double equals, and then a triple equals.
And method === GET.
So basically, wait for
the msgs and GET to come in.
The first thing that we wanna
do is we wanna immediately
reply with 200 OK and the encoding, right?
So it might be helpful here
if we just say connected.
So this will just let you know
that it connected a stream, so
something like that.
And you can even here, you can say plus,
stream.id, this can be a little
confusing because Node will reuse IDs.
So you'll have three connected and they'll
have different IDs, but then one of
them will drop out and then Node will
reuse that with a different user.
So just be aware that you might
see the same ID be reused.
Then you can say stream.respond.
Immediately, you just wanna say,
I received your request.
Everything is healthy.
We're about to start
responding back to you.
So :status 200 to let them
know that it's a 200 response.
And then we're just gonna tell them
how we're gonna send data back.
Now you might be tempted to
put here application/json,
which is actually not totally true.
Cuz we're gonna be sending them multiple
packets of JSON, which if you put those
all together as one thing would
not actually be valid JSON, right?
I can't have multiple objects.
There's no way to stream JSON.
That's actually one of the problems
with JSON as a protocol for
communicating is it doesn't
stream very well at all.
Whereas unfortunately,
something like YAML, which YAML sucks, but
it does stream fairly well.
Anyway, so
we're just gonna say text/plain, and
that'll just tell whoever is consuming
this is like, make no assumption.
I'm gonna send you a free form data,
basically.
And then we just tell
that it is charset=utf-8,
just to let it know how it's encoded.
Okay, so that's gonna establish
the connection and then keep it open.
And then we're gonna
write the first response.
We're gonna first say
stream.write JSON.stringify.
Cuz again, Express isn't doing all
of the nice, packaging it up for us.
So we have to stringify it ourselves.
I'm gonna say msg getMsgs.
And then here,
we're gonna say stream.on close.
So whenever the user disconnects,
We just wanna log that out and say,
console.log disconnected.
+ stream.id.
Okay.
So you can see here this is running.
If you go over here, nothing's happening.
So this might terrify some of you,
potential security risk ahead.
I promise you I'm not exfiltrating
your Bitcoins or something like that.
Though honestly, great idea,
I should have thought of that earlier.
[LAUGH] This is fine.
The browsers just don't trust
self-signed certificates.
So you have to click here on Advanced and
accept the risk and continue.
It'll look similar in Chrome, and Safari,
and Edge, but just say accept it.
What's happening here?
What did I do?
Req is not defined.
Yeah, what did I do here?
Rec headers, so here on 39 and 40,
just delete, it's just headers.
So on 30 and 39, headers is not coming
from req as it was down here, right?
It's actually just coming in as an array.
So yeah, line 39 and line 40,
headers path and method.
Refresh that, try again, there you go.
Now our Chat With Me is back up.
Again, nothing is working and
nothing streaming, but
we'll get there here in just a second.
One thing that I did add for this
particular section here in the top right,
see this little red dot?
I wanted you to be able to visualize,
am I connected to the server or am I not?
So we're gonna write a little code to just
modify that so that if I'm connected,
it'll be green and
if it's disconnected, it's red.
You can see right now I'm not connected
to the server, so it's gonna be red.